Changelog 168 (#149)
intellij-rust/intellij-rust.github.io: _posts/2022-04-11-changelog-168.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "IntelliJ Rust Changelog #168"
date: 2022-04-11 13:00:00 +0300
---

## New Features

> * [#8647] Collapse macro expansion steps into single one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#8647] Collapse macro expansion steps into a single one.
```

It's not only fixes UI blinking during macro expansion process but also significantly speed up macro expansion itself

> * [#8689] Provide file links in terminal for `dbg!` macro output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#8689] Provide file links for `dbg!` macro output in terminal
```

> * [#8689] Provide file links for `dbg!` macro output in terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#8689] Provide file links for `dbg!` macro output in the terminal
```

  {% include gif-img.html path="/assets/posts/changelog-168/dbg_output_file_links" w="700px" %}

## Fixes

> * [#8674] The `Generate constructor` action now places the cursor after the generated constructor (by [@Kobzol])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#8674] `Generate constructor` action now places the cursor after the generated code (by [@Kobzol])
```

> * [#8671] Escape keyword-like identifiers like `type` by `Import` quick-fix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#8671] `Import` quick-fix now properly escapes keyword-like identifiers as raw identifiers 
```

> * [#8631] Properly evaluate build scripts even if a crate doesn't contain binary or library targets.

Reviewer: Not sure, but as I understand, "package" should be used here instead of "crate" ([in terms of Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/reference/cargo-targets.html))

```suggestion
* [#8631] Properly evaluate build scripts even if a package does not have any binary or library targets.
```

  Note, build script evaluation is disabled by default. To turn it on, enable `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` [experimental feature][experimental features]

* [#8692] Update [ra_ap_proc_macro_srv](https://crates.io/crates/ra_ap_proc_macro_srv) lib to 0.0.102 in procedural macro expander.
  It should fix expansion of some procedural macro calls (for example, from [rocket](https://crates.io/crates/rocket) crate).

>   Note, procedural macro expansion is disabled by default for now.

Reviewer: We already used "Note, build script evaluation is disabled by default" before, so I suggest either removing "for now" part here or adding it to the first one.

  To turn it on, enable `org.rust.cargo.evaluate.build.scripts` and `org.rust.macros.proc` [experimental features]

* [#8666] Fix `NoClassDefFoundError` exceptions in Rider 2021.3 and show debugger settings properly

> * [#8683] Properly validate new Rust project names with `.` symbol in minor IDEs like CLion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#8683] Properly validate project names containing `.` symbol while creating new Rust projects in all IntelliJ-based IDEs
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure about "all IntelliJ-based IDEs". But "minor IDEs" term looks confusing to me

Reviewer 2: It's definetly not about all IntelliJ-based IDEs because it doesn't affect IDEA
Note, we already used `minor IDE` term several times in previous changelogs

Reviewer: Yes, I understand that "IntelliJ-based IDEs" term is not precise in this context.

I've seen "minor IDE" term several times in both our GitHub and JetBrains YouTrack. But this time, I took a fresh look at it and found it confusing. Since I don't see a good alternative too, probably this question is better to address to a certain team like copywriters

> * [#8555] Fix parsing and highlighting of doc comment headers in some corner cases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [#8555] Parse and highlight headers in doc comments properly
```

> * [#8679] Fix parsing errors when updating crates local index

Reviewer: Probably we should call it **"local crates index"** instead of "crates local index", as it sounds more natural and also was mentioned in [the blog post](https://blog.jetbrains.com/rust/2021/08/04/what-s-new-in-intellij-rust-for-the-2021-2-release-cycle/#More_code_insight_for_Cargotoml).
```suggestion
* [#8679] Fix parse errors when updating local crates index
```
